• What are the benefits of using css?

=>CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets, and it is a style sheet language that allows web developers to control the appearance and layout of a website. CSS has many benefits, such as:

It makes the website more attractive and user-friendly by applying colors, fonts, backgrounds, borders, and other design elements.
It improves the performance and loading speed of the website by reducing the amount of HTML code and minimizing the file size.
It enhances the accessibility and compatibility of the website by making it easier to adjust to different screen sizes, devices, browsers, and languages.
It creates a consistent look and feel across the website by applying the same style rules to multiple elements and pages.
It simplifies the maintenance and update of the website by allowing changes to be made in one place and affecting the whole website.

• What are the disadvantages of CSS? 

=> CSS is a style sheet language that allows web developers to control the appearance and layout of web pages. CSS has many advantages, such as saving time, improving consistency, enhancing accessibility, and enabling responsive design. However, CSS also has some disadvantages, such as:

Browser compatibility: Different browsers may interpret CSS rules differently, resulting in inconsistent rendering of web pages. Web developers have to test their pages across multiple browsers and use vendor prefixes or fallbacks to ensure compatibility.
Learning curve: CSS has multiple levels and versions, such as CSS1, CSS2, and CSS3, which can be confusing for beginners and non-developers. CSS also has a complex syntax and many properties and values to remember. Web developers have to learn the best practices and conventions of writing CSS code.
Security: CSS does not provide any security features or encryption methods to protect the data or content of web pages. Web developers have to rely on other technologies, such as HTTPS or SSL, to ensure the security of their websites.

• What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3? 

=> CSS2 and CSS3 are both versions of the language used to style web pages. CSS3 is the latest version and was first introduced in 1999, while CSS2 was released in 1998 and is considered to be a stable and mature version. The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 is split into different modules, each with its own features and browser support. CSS3 also offers more modern features and better convenience to developers.

• Name a few CSS style components 

=> Some components of CSS style include:
1)Selector: class name, id name or element name that is target
2)Attribute: name of the attribute you want to style, for example border, color, background, position etc.
3)Value of Property: value that will be assigned to attribute.
4)Property: the styles used on specific selectors are CSS properties.
5)Value: the value assigned to a property.

• What do you understand by CSS opacity? 

=> CSS opacity is a property that sets the transparency level of an element. It affects how much the background behind the element is visible. The value of CSS opacity can be a number between 0 and 1, or a percentage between 0% and 100%. A lower value means more transparency, and a higher value means more opacity. For example, opacity: 0.5; or opacity: 50%; will make the element half-transparent, while opacity: 1; or opacity: 100%; will make the element fully opaque.

CSS opacity applies to the whole element, including its contents and children. This means that if you change the opacity of a parent element, it will also affect the opacity of its child elements. This can make the text inside a transparent element hard to read. If you want to change the opacity of only the background of an element, you can use the background property with a color value that has an alpha channel, such as rgba or hsla. For example, background: rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.3); will make the background red with 30% opacity.

• How can the background color of an element be changed? 

=> To change the background color of an element, you can use the CSS property background-color and assign it a color value. For example, if you want to change the background color of a paragraph element to black, you can write:

p {
  background-color: black;
}

You can use different ways to specify the color value, such as color names, hexadecimal codes, RGB values, HSL values, or RGBA and HSLA values for transparency. You can also select the element by its class name or id name and apply the background-color property to it.

• How can image repetition of the backup be controlled? 

=> Image repetition of the backup can be controlled in CSS by using the background-repeat property. This property specifies how the background image will be repeated or not repeated along the horizontal and vertical axes. There are five possible values for this property:

repeat: The default value, which repeats the background image both horizontally and vertically.
repeat-x: Repeats the background image only horizontally.
repeat-y: Repeats the background image only vertically.
no-repeat: Shows the background image only once, without repeating it.
space: Repeats the background image as much as possible without clipping it, and leaves equal space between the images.
round: Repeats the background image as much as possible without clipping it, and scales the images to fit the available space.
The syntax for using this property is:

background-repeat: repeat|repeat-x|repeat-y|no-repeat|space|round;


• What is the use of the background-position property? 

=> The background-position property in CSS is mainly used to sets the initial position for the background image ie., it is used to set an image at a certain position. The position that is relative to the positioning layer, can be set by using the background-origin property.

Syntax:

background-position: value;

(The background-image is placed default to the top-left corner of an element with a repetition on both horizontally & vertically).

• Which property controls the image scroll in the background? 

=> The property that controls the image scroll in the background is called background-attachment in CSS. It can have different values, such as scroll, fixed, or local, depending on how you want the background image to behave when the page is scrolled.For example, if you want the background image to stay fixed in the same position, you can use background-attachment: fixed; in your CSS code.You can also use this property to create a simple parallax scrolling effect, which is an illusion of 3D depth4.

• Why should background and color be used as separate properties? 

=> There are several reasons why background and color should be used as separate properties in CSS. Here are some of them:

Flexibility: Using background and color separately allows you to control the appearance of different elements independently. For example, you can change the background color of a div without affecting the text color inside it, or vice versa. You can also use different values for background and color, such as images, gradients, or transparent colors, to create various effects and combinations.

Readability: Using background and color separately helps to ensure that the text is readable against the background. It is important to choose colors that have enough contrast ratio, which is the difference in brightness and color between the text and the background. A low contrast ratio can make the text hard to see or distinguish, especially for people with low vision or color blindness. You can use tools like WebAIM: Color Contrast Checker to check the contrast ratio of your colors.

Performance: Using background and color separately can improve the performance of your web page, especially if you use images or gradients for the background. By specifying a background color, you can provide a fallback option for browsers that do not support images or gradients, or for users who have disabled them. This way, you can avoid displaying a blank or broken background, which can affect the user experience and accessibility of your web page.

Simplicity: Using background and color separately can make your code simpler and easier to maintain. By using separate properties, you can avoid using the shorthand background property, which can be confusing and prone to errors. The shorthand background property can set multiple values at once, such as color, image, position, size, repeat, origin, clip, and attachment. However, if you omit some of these values, the browser will use the default values instead, which may not be what you intended. For example, if you use background: url(image.png);, the browser will also apply background-color: transparent;, which may not be suitable for your design.

• How to center block elements using CSS1? 

=> The “blocks” are known for taking full line space, forcing other elements to start on a new line. In other words, they have a width of 100% of the webpage or container holding the block. 

How to center these block elements: We have seen that how this block element behaves, we observe that as they take full line width, to center them we only have the margin property that is controlling them horizontally.
The margin can control the position of the block element both horizontally and vertically. To center them, we can adjust the margin property such that it is placed in the center.


• How to maintain the CSS specifications? 

=> There are different ways to maintain the CSS specifications, depending on the size and complexity of the application. One possible approach is to follow these rules:

1)Keep all global styles in a separate file.
2)Keep styles of components (pages, layouts) in isolation all the time.
3)Keep the same name across the javascript file name, component name, style file name, and style class name.

These rules will help to avoid conflicts, duplication, and confusion when working with CSS. Another possible approach is to use a CSS preprocessor, such as LESS or SASS, which allows you to write more modular and maintainable CSS code. You can also use tools like CSS Lint or Stylelint to check your CSS code for errors and best practices.

• What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page? 

=> There are three main ways to integrate CSS into a web page. They are:

1)Inline CSS: Styles added directly to the HTML element using the style attribute. For example, <p style="color: red;">This is a red paragraph.</p>. This method applies the style only to the specific element and is not recommended for large or complex web pages.

2)Embedded CSS: Styles defined in a <style> element within the <head> element of the HTML document. For example, <style>p {color: blue;}</style>. This method applies the style to all elements that match the selector in the same document and is useful for small or simple web pages.

3)Linked/Imported CSS: Styles defined in an external file with a .css extension and linked to the HTML document using a <link> or <import> element. For example, <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet">. This method applies the style to all elements that match the selector in any document that links to the same CSS file and is preferred for large or complex web pages.

• What is embedded style sheets? 

=> Embedded style sheets are a way of applying CSS styles to an HTML document by using the <style> element inside the <head> section. This allows you to define styles for the whole document in one place, instead of using inline styles for each element. Embedded style sheets are useful for HTML documents that have unique style requirements, but if you want to apply the same styles across multiple documents, you should use an external style sheet instead.

• What are the external style sheets? 

=> External style sheets are files that contain CSS rules that can be applied to HTML elements. They have the advantage of allowing you to change the appearance of multiple web pages by editing just one file. External style sheets have the .css file extension and are linked to HTML pages using the <link> tag inside the <head> section. For example, if you have an external style sheet named mystyle.css, you can link it to your HTML page like this:

<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="mystyle.css">
</head>

External style sheets have the lowest priority among the three types of CSS (inline, internal, and external).
 
• What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets? 

=> External style sheets are CSS files that are stored in a separate document and linked to one or more HTML pages. They have some advantages and disadvantages compared to other types of CSS, such as inline or internal styles. Here are some of them:

Advantages of external style sheets:

They allow you to control the style of multiple web pages from one file, which makes it easier to maintain and update the design of your website.
They reduce the size and complexity of your HTML files, which improves the readability and performance of your code.
They can be cached by web browsers, which means they load faster on subsequent visits and save bandwidth.

Disadvantages of external style sheets:

They require an additional HTTP request to load the CSS file, which can increase the loading time of your web pages, especially if the file is large or the connection is slow.
They may not be rendered correctly until the CSS file is loaded, which can cause a flash of unstyled content (FOUC) or a delay in the appearance of your web page.
They may not be supported by older browsers or devices, which can affect the compatibility and accessibility of your website.

• What is the meaning of the CSS selector? 

=> CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to style.

We can divide CSS selectors into five categories:

1)Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
2)Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
3)Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
4)Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
5)Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)

• What are the media types allowed by CSS? 

=> The @media rule, introduced in CSS2, made it possible to define different style rules for different media types.

Examples: You could have one set of style rules for computer screens, one for printers, one for handheld devices, one for television-type devices, and so on.
Unfortunately these media types never got a lot of support by devices, other than the print media type.

Media queries in CSS3 extended the CSS2 media types idea: Instead of looking for a type of device, they look at the capability of the device.

Media queries can be used to check many things, such as:

width and height of the viewport
width and height of the device
orientation (is the tablet/phone in landscape or portrait mode?)
resolution
Using media queries are a popular technique for delivering a tailored style sheet to desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile phones (such as iPhone and Android phones).

• What is the rule set?

=> A CSS ruleset is various affirmations to various pieces or elements of the document. The objective is to apply a bunch of properties for certain distinct qualities to a solitary, or a particular arrangement of components in the connected HTML page. 

The “.” in the beginning indicates that the rule created will be a class, also “container” indicates the name of the selector. Similarly “first-child” indicates the pseudo-class, and elements inside curly brackets are elements of a declaration block, which contains some CSS properties and their corresponding values. The CSS ruleset will be applied when the selector name is called on the main HTML page. 